The method for designing a relational database is to use a process commonly known as normalization. The goal is to generate a set of relation schemas that allows us to store information without unnecessary redundancy, yet also allows us to retrieve information easily.
The approach is:
1. Decide if a given relation schema is in 'good form."
2. If a given relation schema is not in "good form," then we decompose it into a number of smaller relation schemas, each of which is in an appropriate normal form.
To determine whether a relation schema is in one of the desiral normal forms, we need additional information about the real-world enterprise that we are modeling with the database. The most common approach is to use functional dependencies.
These anomalies naturally occur and result in data that does not match the real-world the database purports to represent. Anomalies are caused when there is too much redundancy in the database's information.
Anomalies can often be caused when the tables that make up the database suffer from poor construction.
There are three kind of anomalies:
- Insert Anomaly
• Delete Anomaly
Update Anomaly
Insert Anomalies
Occurs when certain attributes cannot be inserted into the database without the presence of other attributes.
Ex: we can't add a new course unless we have at least one student enrolled on the course (this is the converse of delete anomaly).
Insert Anomalies

empiD productio
product.Name
E001 POOL, PO02
Widget Procio; Gadget
Maxs
E002 PooL, Poog Widget Pros20; Gine
Ultimate:.10
E003
Peez. Pooy Gadget Masciss
Thingamajig Elite:s
E004 Poo3, Poos Giamo Libimate.S.
Whatchamacalit Pro:12
costPrice Perlinit
transactionDate paymentlype
Credit, 30
8500, (375. 350)
2021-07-01
$1000, Eb50
3 Maret 2021
Card, (Transter,
Cygo, 500 EUR
2021-07-05
Debit. [Credit
Voucher)
(1300 USD, 800
CAD!
og Mar'as
Cash, (Card Debit]
Suppliers Suppliers
SooL
S002
So01,
S003
S002
So04
S003
S005
XYZ Industries, ABC
Supplies
ABC Supplies, DEF
Corp
XYZ Industries, GHI
Manufacturing
DEF Corp., JKL
Products
Un-
Normalized

These anomalies naturally occur and result in data that does not match the real-world the database purports to represent. Anomalies are caused when there is too much redundancy in the database's information.
Anomalies can often be caused when the tables that make up the database suffer from poor construction.
There are three kind of anomalies:
- Insert Anomaly
- Delete Anomaly
- Update Anomaly

For a table to be in the Second Normal Form:
Rule 1:
It should be in the First Normal Form.
Rule 2:
It should not have Partial Dependency.
Before we start, let's find out what is Partial Dependency.
X

A is functionally depends on X.
X+ Y

A is partially depends on (X+Y).
• In table below, attribute emp id is the primary key and will be unique for every row, hence we can use emp_id to fetch any row of data from this table.
• Therefor attribute empName, reg_ date, branch and empAddress is functional dependent on attribute emp_id.
For a simple table like EMPLOYEE SALES, a single column like empD can uniquely identify all the records in a table.
But this is not true all the time. So now let's extend our example to see if more than 1 column together can act as a primary key (composite key).
COMPOSITE KEY = two different attribute work together as a PRIMARY KEY
roductName
castPrice Perl mit
transactionDate prymentlype SupplieriD SupplierName
• In this case, primary key is a composite key.
• Which is combination of (emplD) + (productiD)
• transactionDate and paymentType is functionally depends on primary key X+Y
• (empiD+productiD)
• But... attributes productName, costPricePerUnit. supplierlD and supplierName only depends on Y(productID) only.
• YproductID) is just a part of primary key X+Y (emplD+productID), therefore we call this situation partial dependency.
• We want to eliminate partial dependency in 2NF.
